SOURCE_URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gwu/comments/1may8rf/commuting_by_metro/

[POST TITLE] Commuting by metro

[POST BODY]
I’m an incoming MA student looking for housing. I noticed that further apartments are cheaper but I don’t drive. I’ve also never used a metro before - if anyone knows how tedious/time consuming this may be plz lmk!! Also open to suggestions

For all of DC’s faults, its metro system is one of the best in the country. Wayyyy easier than driving if you ask me

Timing will vary drastically depending on neighborhood, but it’ll be well under an hour of train time from just about anywhere. Grad students (while enrolled full time) can get a u-pass card for 100 dollars a semester providing unlimited metro and metrobus, which is an amazing deal compared to the normal price. Add it when you’re paying tuition. It’s worth it after fewer than 50 rides.

Metro is great, you can handle it. I was carless for all 3 years of law school and barely missed having a car, it’s just harder to get out of the city. My advice is just live close to a metro station that requires no more than 1 transfer to get to GW. Use google or DC metro app to plan your commute from apartments you’re looking at to campus. Only apply to places with a commute time you’re okay with and the fewer transfers the better. Or, to make it even easier, GW is on the blue, orange, and silver lines and ideally your apartment should be too (no transfers). I lived in a tiny studio like 10 minutes’ walk from the Clarendon metro station and that was ideal for a commute to GW. 15 minutes after getting on the metro, I was on campus. Arlington is boring and all that but, whatever, I was there to study.

DC's metro is awesome! GW has a dedicated stop so if you live on the blue, orange, or silver line you can come to school with no issue.

Do you suggest any neighborhoods I can consider that aren’t that far? I’m new to the area

I think when I was applying (like 7 years ago I guess? So grain of salt!) cheapest neighborhoods within like 30 minutes on metro were:
Alexandria (blue line)
Arlington (orange/silver, btwn like Falls Church and Clarendon)
Takoma/Silver Spring (red line, but folks get off at Farragut North which is also quite close to campus)
Bethesda/Friendship Heights (also red line) BUT if you are cool with roommates, it’s also pretty easy to get a houseshare in DuPont or Columbia Heights or something even closer to campus. I was only willing to live alone.

This is all great advice but I will say Columbia Heights is a tough neighborhood to live in and get to campus, because it's on the green line which goes nowhere near GW. Something physically further but on the blue/orange/silver line is probably a shorter commute.

What about courthouse and rosslyn in VA? Or Capitol Hill in DC?

I live in courthouse and commute! I am about a 6-8 min walk from the metro (depends on how speedy i feel), and the train ride is about 8ish min on average. I generally leave about 30 min before class and make it on time (I go to Milken though, which is around the corner from the metro.)

Oh good call, I agree with this, OP!

Ah great was asking if these are good options to stay at

Court house and Rosslyn are both a super short commute, just 1-2 metro stops, and have a decent number of food/bars/useful stores within walking distance of the metro. Court house feels more neighborhood-y whereas Rosslyn metro is surrounded by more tall buildings. Capitol Hill is also probably not bad, it's much more old DC residential neighborhood (rowhomes). Somewhat longer commute than Court House/Rosslyn but you don't have to transfer.

Hi! I am an incoming student as well and wonder if, in such circumstances, driving would be counted as "luxury" or "needless"?

Semester Parking is roughly 1K for commuters and probably near 1.5K per semester for overnight parking. The traffic leading into DC also has degraded, and the EZPass HOT lanes are easily 30+ dollars each day. Commuting by car from Maryland would be easier and more consistent. From Virginia, the only consistent route is Route 50. The biggest headache with a car is the lack of predictability in your commute. You could for example leave every day at 8AM, easily get in for class at 9AM, but one day you'll be 30 minutes late. If your commute doesn't overlap with rush hour, it is more manageable. For Graduate school it could make sense if you already live out in the 'burbs and have a car. But for undergrad, I would give it a hard no (I commuted all my years to GW and now live in the area). If you're under 26, car insurance will be roughly between 120-480 dollars a month, registration fees, parking tickets, gas, maintenance items, property tax (Virginia), and etc... all add up.

Just adding on that if you can limit classes to 2-3 days a week, you can cut the parking down to $500-700 a semester. Also, the lack of predictability has gotten worse since everyone is back in the office. You really have no clue what the day is going to look like from a driving perspective. Though if you aren't traveling during peak commute times, you are not hitting those 30+ dollar tolls - it's more like $5.

yes. and incredibly expensive. especially when you factor in the UPass which is unlimited metro for $100/semester (phenomenal deal). if you're an undergrad it's mandatory. for grad students it's optional but a ridiculously good deal to turn down.