SOURCE_URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gwu/comments/62m1d2/computer_science_at_gw/

[POST TITLE] Computer Science at GW

[POST BODY]
I just got accepted into GW, and I'm very excited, so now I just have to pick between GW and UMD. I am going to major in Computer Science, so UMD seems a much better school for that major. But GWU has an amazing atmosphere, location, and I just generally like the overall university more at GW. So I'm torn, Maryland has one of the highest rated computer science programs in the nation, where GW ranks very poorly in that field. Any GW students or Comp Sci students have any advice to offer me? Am I putting too much value in the rankings? Should I just go with the college I like better, or should I focus on my major? Any advice is appreciated, thank you.

CS at GW has actually taken huge bounds in the past few years. Many friends of mine have loved their experience and were already getting job offers by Junior Year. Your experience is also largely what you make it, so I would recommend choosing the school environment you feel ore comfortable in, which will hopefully set you up for academic success. Feel free to PM me with any specific questions and I'd be happy to refer you to someone more familiar with the program.

Congratulations on being accepted to GWU! I feel qualified to respond to your question because I'm the new department chair for Computer Science; and I went to UMD for my PhD (finishing there in 2000). UMD has a fantastic program; including some famous alumni that did little things like found Oculus. I think very highly of their program --- They have very smart instructors, outstanding professors, and energetic students. I think equally highly of the GWU program. We have many fewer majors so: (a) our classes are much smaller, and
(b) all students are required to do senior design projects with faculty interaction, and
(c) it is easier to get involved in faculty research projects. This is a particular interest of mine; as an example, here is a list of paper my research group published that included undergraduate co-authors http://research.engineering.wustl.edu/~pless/pubs/publications.php?search=ugrad (as you might notice from the URL I haven't moved my webpage from my old school since I've been so involved in our new faculty hiring efforts this year). Drop me a note ( pless@gwu.edu ) if you'd like to chat in person or have more specific questions I can answer by e-mail. --Robert

I only know a little bit from 4+ years ago, so it may be out of date. A guy I tangentially knew was in the GW Computer Science program and apparently it was actually trash (to the point where he transferred out after a year or two).

What are the costs going to look like to you? I probably wouldn't pay more to go to GWU when we/they have an underperforming Comp Sci department. GWU is trying hard to fight the idea that we're only a political science school, but I'm not sure it's there yet.

The costs for both are about the same, Maryland is out of state and gave me almost no financial aid, where GW gave me a lot of scholarships that brought the cost down to actually less than Maryland. So financially I'm leaning towards GW, but I still have a lot of thinking to do.

Did you went to GWU ?