SOURCE_URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gwu/comments/gwsp0i/gwu_housing/

[POST TITLE] GWU Housing

[POST BODY]
I am an upcoming freshman, and I just registered for housing. I researched my preferences by viewing the GWU virtual housing tours and reading Reddit posts. Have I made the right housing decisions? Everybody said not to apply for Mount Vernon, so I think I did that part correctly at the very least. I also put Mitchell Hall at the very bottom of my list because I don't prefer living by myself. 1) Madison Hall 2) Potomac House 3) Lafayette Hall 4) Guthridge Hall 5) Fulbright Hall 6) Mitchell Hall

If you’re not considering financial factors, I’d switch Madison and Potomac around.

Wait, I should put Potomac lower because I'm considering financial factors.

Is there somewhere we can see the cost for each residence hall?

https://living.gwu.edu/2020-2021-rates

I wouldn't switch, Madison has bigger rooms and a much better location

Just so you know, they tell you that your preferences influence your placement, but it’s really a lottery. Especially now that Thurston is under renovation and there are fewer options. However, if I could go back to freshman year I would have loved to live in Madison as it was centrally located and seemed like it had the party dorm feel of Thurston without the black mold and diseases.

The Mount Vernon Campus will be freshman-only this coming year. That change may make it more difficult for first year students to get housing on Foggy Bottom, even if other halls like Potomac also prioritize freshmen.

Definitely. I lived in madison and absolutely loved it. Guthridge and Fulbright have kitchens in the dorms but the others don't.

How about Potomac?

Potomac doesn’t have a kitchen in each room but there is a communal kitchen in the basement

Lived in Madison and it was great...don’t change them at all and just hope you get Madison!

Alright. Thank you. If I don't get Madison, what can I do to get into Madison?

You can always try to room swap...but honestly don’t even worry about it...all the freshmen dorms are pretty nice!

I lived in Madison and loved my room and the location of the dorm!

Yeah, this seems like a good call. The top 3 are all good choices, but honestly, none of these are bad for freshman dorms. I lived in Lafayette first year and its probably the most underrated dorm. The building itself is small, and usually really quiet, but its overall a really nice building and the location is really good (right next to Marvin, CVS, Penn shops, closest dorm to the White House, not too far from anything except maybe Elliott. If you get placed in Lafayette and have any questions feel free to ask :D