SOURCE_URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gwu/comments/1pyc0s6/how_to_get_the_dorm_you_want_as_a_first_year/

[POST TITLE] how to get the dorm you want as a first year

[POST BODY]
i know i want to be on foggy bottom because getting to and from the vern would be a hassle, plus it's too quiet and to me feels a bit isolated. on late nights, i don't want to have to worry about catching the vex either. housing registration obviously doesn't open yet and i know that 1/3 of the freshman class lives on the vern, but i don't want to be that 1/3 so does anyone have times on how i should avoid it? p.s. if i have to live on the vern i will, and i'm aware that special programs are also housed there so that makes up a large part of that

You don’t get to choose. You rank the dorms in order from most to least preferred and CLRE will place you from there.

thanks :)

It's completely random. I have no clue if the rankings mean anything, because everyone puts the Foggy Bottom ones first. All I'll say is that the Vern isn't as awful as it's made out to be. I came to GWU for a city campus experience and was incredibly disappointed to be put in Cole Hall, but as a junior looking back I wouldn't change it. You'll have the other 3 years to live within the city, so don't worry about it too much if you're put there. Also, there's a sense of camaraderie within all of the unfortunate Vernies and I still have some of those friendships. Side-note, as someone who struggles occasionally with being on time, living on the Vern is a great way to force yourself into healthy routines, since you can't just get back in bed in between classes and whatnot.

thank you! this was very helpful

unfortunately, u can’t choose :(( ur best bet to avoid it is to rank all the vern dorms dead last, but even then it’s not guaranteed they won’t place u there

gotcha, thanks for the help :)

Tbh best chance go random for roommate

I got Clark hall on the Vern even when I ranked it last. It sucked and ruined my first semester. But my roomate and I complained to CLRE through email and she was able to move to thurston and I moved to Potomac our second semester. I love it at GW now. My advice is just hope you get a dorm on foggy but if u get put on the Vern just join clubs and talk to as many people as possible so you don’t feel like a commuter

thanks! i'll try to put the foggy bottom ones last. i really appreciate it

Wait wait I switched it up do NOTTTT put the foggy ones last. You want the foggy ones so put them all first. **the Vern sucks and it’s the off campus so avoid that at all costs and put those ones last!!!!

got it got it thank you so much

Applying for one of the LLCs based on Foggy Bottom might also increase your chances, assuming there is one that aligns with your interests.

thanks!!

couple days late to this thread. that being said: no one wants to live on the Vern, yet people have to. it’s just luck. I think people make way too big a deal about how “bad” the Vern is. the commute between the Palisades and Foggy Bottom is only bad if you get caught in rush hour traffic which is pretty easy to plan ahead and avoid. there’s always plenty going on there, too, and I know some people who met their bestest friends at the university when they all lived on the Vern together. The Vern is also I believe the only place where non-DSS freshmen are able to somewhat reliably get a bedroom to themselves. Frankly, I’d take that over 3-4 people in a studio in Foggy ANY day of the week. To me, I think the only true loss living on the Vern is lack of 24 hour library access. I believe there is a late night shuttle but it runs infrequently enough to be enough of an inconvenience to discourage you going. I never used it because I only lived on the Vern over the summer.

thanks! i appreciate the help

anytime. if you have any other questions coming into gw that you want a student’s perspective on, let me know

thank you so much

You could live off campus

not as a freshman.

Assuming a freshman is 18 years old. If you’re considered an independent student you can request to be exempt from needing to live on campus.

being designated an independent student is a massive undertaking and not a designation they give out freely — a designated independent student PS: i still had to live on campus

You have to meet their requirements to be designated as an independent student. One can opt out of staying on campus.

i was an independent student and was not allowed to opt out.

In the housing portal and gw login page you weren’t able to opt out?

nope. i was still held to the first 60 credits req for on campus housing.

Odd. I’m a transfer student starting next Spring in 12 days and they are allowing me to live off campus.

how many credits are you bringing in? how old are you?