SOURCE_URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gwu/comments/1bw4x7a/my_honest_review_on_gw_dining/

[POST TITLE] My honest review on GW Dining

[POST BODY]
TLDR at the bottom. Before I begin this post, to prospective students, know that there are a LOT of pros for GW. This is my opinion on the dining part only, so I’m not going to talk about those pros right now. Let’s begin with the quality of the food. It’s decent at best. Borderline dangerous at worst. At best, the dining halls use low quality food. The breaded chicken is often mushy and the grilled chicken is often hard. Any bread is often stale and tastes bad. The rice is often hard, probably undercooked. The pasta has been crunchy. It’s worse than my high schools cafeteria. (Though I will say, Thurston omelettes are pretty decent and the yogurt in the mornings is delicious) Now let’s talk about the dining partners that accept meal swipes. True burger tastes good but you’ll gain 60 lbs if that’s all you eat. Same with the new pizza joint. Halal shack is probably the ONLY healthy (assuming you don’t add loads of sauce) dining option outside the halls, but if I eat that chicken all the time I’ll have constant heartburn. Oh and taco house also often has hard rice and low quality shells. Sometimes it’s good but I often get some pretty awful burritos from there. Sushi do is also good but it’s high sodium so eating that all the time is gonna give you a stroke. For GW Hillel, I consistently get heartburn eating it. The Indian place in USC is okay and probably the healthiest good tasting option if you don’t drown your food in sauce. And absurd bird is low quality chicken and buns, but not bad. Overall. I’d give the food a decent rating, not many healthy options though, but let’s talk about the worst. In the dining halls specifically, there’s been many cases of undercooked food. See this post - https://www.reddit.com/r/gwu/s/DDqQLhovBX . I personally have had my own bad experience, having gave my girlfriend a veggie burger before leaving my dorm and coming back to find multiple pieces of plastic (like latex glove plastic) she picked out her burger and vomit in my trash can. Now let’s talk about the price. As a freshman, you’re forced on a $3000 plan roughly. You go to $2700 once you account for your dining dollars. The fall semester is 117 days and assuming you go home for Thanksgiving break, let’s say 112 days. That means they expect you to eat $24 worth of food per day. Thats pretty reasonable for not having to ever cook. Except when you consider the fact that you’re FORCED on these plans. If you live on campus, you’re forced to buy a plan, and while they are cheaper, $3000 offers the best value. Plus if you’re an underclassman, you don’t have a choice on what plan you get. That means if you want to just cook for yourself to eat higher quality food for CHEAPER (assuming you’re not buying your groceries at Whole Foods and buying unnecessary things), well you can’t. Because if you’re on an unlimited meal plan, it doesn’t make sense to buy extra food on top of that. Basically, GW takes away your freedom in this regard. You don’t get to choose what you eat if it’s outside GW’s menu. Unless you wanna fork out extra money that is. Why do they do this? Well they claim it’s because, since the dining halls offer unlimited food, they need to make a certain amount of money to cover that food so they base the amount of food they make on the student population size. But this really sounds like a cover up excuse for “hello we like money” because they could just base the amount of food they make on the amount of students that actually buy the plan rather than forcing everyone to buy it. They know not everyone wants their food so by forcing them to buy it anyways, they know those students will eat less in value than they paid for. This is how they profit. They go through a partner, whether it be Sysco or Sodexo or some other company, to buy tons of low quality food in bulk for cheap. Then when you’re forced to buy a plan but don’t want the food, you eat less food than you paid for and they make money. In my opinion, that’s disgusting. They have no good reason for forcing us on meal plans. Even if you are having issues with food, like intestinal problems, they don’t make exceptions. Getting an exception from the meal plan requirement is probably the most difficult thing to do on campus. You need doctors notes and a serious enough condition where you will be non functional on their meal plan. I personally am very dissatisfied with this. I want to just make my own food, but I live on campus, so I can’t do that. I can’t waste $3000 just to make my own food. I have intestinal issues and need specific food but because it won’t kill me not to have it, they make no exception. If you’re an administrator reading this, I know what you’re thinking. “Well you guys asked for dining halls, now you’re complaining.” Sure, we did ask for dining halls. What we didn’t ask for was cheap food and a lack of freedom on what we’re allowed to eat if we live on campus, which you require us to do for the first two years. So yeah, we asked for this, but you executed it poorly because you wanted to profit. Your profits should be from our tuition, not from our food. If you wanna be a corporation and make money, fine, but don’t pretend for a second like you view us as more than dollar signs if that’s the case. TLDR: Food quality is decent, though cases of undercooked food or inedible substances in food have been reported. You have no freedom and are forced on meal plans, which they profit from. Eating healthy on campus is also hard.

Ngl breakfast is good at Thurston I’ll edit that in. Also Tbf I haven’t tried the rice since last semester because it was CONSISTENTLY awful so I’ll take your word on it gettting better. The other stuff in the post still holds true

sO glad to hear this, as a possible incoming freshman this really scared me.

oh those omelets sound like heaven! thanks a ton for this

Honestly what’s worse is that we didn’t even ask for dining halls, really, we asked for more spaces to eat together… and some folks don’t know how to budget. It’s ruined it for everyone else who applied to this school with the two braincells it took to rub together and understand that no dining halls was part of the deal. Yippee, shitty food forever now!

It's just low-quality Sysco shit. It's effectively Applebee's level food. I love Applebee's as much as the next guy, but the cost (and the lack of choice) are really fucking shitty. It's really not that hard to put out high quality meals, even at scale, GW just doesn't care to do so

Is it Sysco now? It was Sodexo when I was in undergrad.

Actually it is now https://chartwellshighered.com/

No idea, mostly just meant Sysco as a sub for “commercial grade frozen shit”

Nah that Indian place at USC is so ass always gives me heartburn and makes me blow up the toilet. Not to mention they drown it all in too much sauce.