SOURCE_URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gwu/comments/i34t90/registration_tipschances/

[POST TITLE] Registration tips/chances?

[POST BODY]
I’m signing up for four classes this fall, PSC 1001, PSYC 1001, UW, and Math 1007. How likely is it that I get all of them on registration day? Do you have any tips? And how many backup schedules should I make in case I don’t get some of the classes. Thanks

pull up all the CRNs for the classes you want in the notes on your computer and split screen it with the registration screen. have the CRN for the first class already copied and ready to go. the second the period opens, refresh and copy/paste all the CRNs as fast as possible. be prepared for the system to lag or crash (which means you likely won’t get your most wanted classes). if you have your heart set on a specific class, enter that CRN and register for that class first then do all the rest. finally, don’t panic. you probably won’t get everything you want, so make sure you have backups upon backups also ready to go.

If Math 1007 is Math & Politics, good luck! That class is very logic based and not purely math based. You’ll definitely get it.

That’s what I want lol. Is it not popular? Deciding whether to put it first or second.

If it’s something you want. Go for it. It’s difficult though I will say

It is known to be very difficult hence why people shy away from it.

Yeah, I took it the fall of my first year, I wasn’t too pleased. The professor was an older guy who you could barely understand and the TA’s weren’t much help. I found it hard to follow. Your results may vary.

Download some software that will let you do keyboard macros. I have a mouse that can do macros on it's own, but you can use whatever you want really. Then set up a macro where after you click on the first CRN box and hit the macro button, it will input the first CRN, press tab, input the second CRN, etc., and then press enter. I've used this every semester for registration and I usually get at least all but one of the classes I'm trying to register for. Good luck.

UW is the one you should be most worried about, so you should (in my view) enter that CRN in first and submit it before moving on to the others. Definitely have a backup option (both another UW and a completely different class) for that one. You’re probably fine with the others, but I personally would grab a potential backup for the others just in case. They switched the course registration user interface over the summer, so I don’t totally know if the old strategies still work. Also remember that you need to enter the lecture and discussion section CRNs at the same time, or else it won’t go through.

Thing is I really want math and politics, does it make any sense to do that first? I have 2 UWs that I could do, I don’t really care which one

If that’s the class you want, then do that first! I also didn’t recognize its course number at first and thought it was a normal, boring math course to be honest. Math&Politics is probably close to UW in difficulty to get into, so totally makes sense.

UWs are harder since the sections are so small that's why a lot of people do then first

Unlikely