SOURCE_URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gwu/comments/1b8b92n/social_scene_in_gw/

[POST TITLE] Social Scene in GW

[POST BODY]
Hey there! I’m a prospective student, and I was wondering what the social scene is like at GW. I’m not huge into Greek life, and I’ve heard many negative things like it’s challenging to make friends, there are little to no parties, and the campus events are dead. I’m wondering if there’s any bright side lmao. I’m also not too sure if this is relevant, but I was wondering what the black community is like in GW as well.

greek life only makes up a small portion of campus social life so I wouldn't worry about that if you're looking for a school with big game days and massive tailgates/pregames, GW isn't for you if you're down with house-parties, student org events, and partying across the city (imo GW's #1 social advantage), then GW's great

would you say that the social atmosphere is cliquey? more specifically, did you find it difficult to make friends in your upper-grad years, did you find that people we're open to making more friends, etc?

No, I wouldn’t call it cliquey. A lot of people’s social networks are from clubs and orgs that may/may not have somewhat complex recruitment processes (frats, competitive clubs, etc), but I wouldn’t personally think of that as cliquey in the traditional sense. Exclusive? Sure No, I didn’t find it difficult to make friends, even in upper level classes. But I also had no problem just walking up to random people after class and striking up a conversation and whatever. Most people at GW aren’t like that, and very few people on Reddit are

ok, i figured that would be the case. i've seen many people complain on here that it's difficult to reach out but i've also noticed that these are the same people who refuse to take initiative or commit to said outside clubs and orgs. thanks for your input!

I think people exaggerate the shortcomings of the GW social scene — definitely nothing like big state schools/sports schools, but I found it quite easy to make friends. Had a bunch of fun at house parties, met a lot of people in my major. Not nearly as socially depraved as my friends who went to UCSD lol

I mean if you are looking for that stuff as part of your college experience GWU isn’t for you. If you don’t care about that stuff and GWU has a program that you are interested in then GWU could be an option for you… that simple lmao.

DC is really a lonely place.

That it is. I really like GW but DC has a very jaded and cold social atmosphere. As an introvert with social anxiety I've always found meeting new people and making friends to be a challenge. I've lived in 5 different states and 2 countries outside the US, half of which I was in a major urban area, and I have found DC to be the loneliest by a landslide. Thats just my experience though.

It doesn’t have a city identity in my opinion, people doesn’t have a sense of belonging here. They just come and go.

What do you mean?

a lot of ppl go to clubs/bars, if ur coming get a fake id (for legal reasons this is a joke). if u want consistent planned social activities greek life will give u that. Personally, I regret choosing gw

I second this! I regret choosing gw too. although this school isn’t horrible I just don’t think it’s worth the money nor the time. this school is mid on every front which makes it kinda hard to really enjoy. mid food, mid social, mid academics, i could go on… I just think if you aren’t here for a gw specific major (that being in dc will benefit like IA) it may not be worth it ❤️⭐️I’m transferring the first chance I get and that’s the beauty of “picking the wrong school” you can always change!
:-) good luck

I thought I wanted a city to be ~different. But im missing a campus/college town vibe with spirit. Don't get me wrong i love being able to enjoy dc but there's something very independent about the people here as well. In my experience (and i know others who agree) the people here are also pretty flakey and tend to be cliquey, drop friends quickly, and not really friends people. everyone is hyper focused on politics or status. I thought about transferring but thought it would be best to stay for my major and financially. I wish I found more of a community - and that's coming from someone also in greek life who still feels a lack of community

There’s a pretty good sense of community, at least in comparison to what everyone makes it out to be. I mean yeah the stereotype is that everyone is independent, but also most of us came to DC for internships and to be focused on school and jobs. In contrast to NYU, there are a lot of community spaces interwoven between buildings and even though it is technically an open city, during the weekdays essentially all you’ll see are students roaming around the streets between classes. Much more community in my opinion than the NYU feel

if you’re looking for like big sports and a lot of school spirit it’s not gw, but the social life is not lacking. i have loved every second of my time at gw both academically and socially. you just have to put yourself out there, get involved in things.

I'm also curious about this!

How much you enjoy the social scene will really depend what type of atmosphere you are into. Some of the previous comments hit it on the nail already. GW doesn't have huge Greek life, and nobody cares about sports here. GW is good if you want an open sand-box type experience. When I transferred out of community college, I got into UVA and GW. UVA is an example of a huge state school with massive football games, tailgates, massive Greek live, and lots of rural exploration. GW is quite the opposite. There isn't a strong sense of school spirit at GW because it's a small college in the middle of DC, but there are advantages that make up for it. Even though GW doesn't have a big traditional campus like Georgetown, it is in the middle of DC and close to the metro. Foggy Bottom is also very flat, unlike Georgetown which is built on tons of hills. Walking around Georgetown gets exhausting, but walking around Foggy Bottom doesn't. Foggy Bottom is also a lot closer to all of the bars, clubs, White House, etc. Bottom line, you won't get a huge state school experience here, but you will get a lot of variety and cool things to do in DC.