SOURCE_URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gwu/comments/137uaqr/campus_safety/

[POST TITLE] Campus Safety

[POST BODY]
I’m an incoming student this fall and I’ve been getting lots of Police activity alerts from GW already, which is pretty concerning. How do current students feel about the safety on campus?

Police alerts are common but don’t let them get you paranoid. There is police activity everywhere all the time in cities, especially DC, they just don’t send out alerts every time they are nearby. 99% of time the GW ones are followed up with an all clear within 20 minutes, and most of them are technically “off campus” or on the outskirts. GW campus is quiet and doesn’t have many issues, just follow regular city rules like not walking alone at 2am and not flaunting any expensive items. The “worst” you’ll get is a homeless person either asking for money or just yelling at everything in sight, but just keep walking. There are much worse places you can be in DC, Foggy Bottom is definitely one of the safest.

Sounds good. I’m coming from NYC so definitely familiar with the city culture. Thanks for the response!

Yeah Foggy Bottom is snoozy compared to NYC. Just imagine how many more alerts you’d get if you went to NYU lol.

Haha good point

I’m an international student starting fall and I have to say I was very concerned with the gun violence incidents. This message has really helped alleviate some of those concerns. Thank you!

As someone who’s worked extensively with MPD this semester— foggy bottom is one of the safest places in this city. You’ll be fine.

I have never personally felt unsafe except on January 6th when I was studying for my PhD comprehensive exams and heard flashbangs from the capitol.

What a cool way to fear for your life tho #onlyatgwmoment

I mean, take this with a grain of salt bc I live off campus now but I'm a senior and I've never felt particularly unsafe. It's a big city, stuff happens and we get notified about all of it (which is good obviously). Almost everyone takes basic precautions (pepper spray, be smart at night, etc) but very little of the crime you get alerts about actually affects students as far as I know. Being integrated into the middle of a city has downsides and unfortunately, a slightly less safe campus is one of them. I would say it's about as safe and maybe slightly safer than living in any major city and a lot of the off campus areas where people live (West End, Arlington, etc) are pretty safe and the dorms have tao access so they're usually pretty safe too

Copy that, thank you for the reply!

I'm from what is considered one of the most dangerous cities in the US (where I got my bachelor's) and DC as a whole is fine-especially Foggy Bottom.

I am not getting alerts. Is there a place I need to put my phone number in?

You need to Log in to the GW Alert portal using your GW UserID and password. You may be asked to search for "George Washington University" when you first log in. This will bring you to the "My Account" page.
You will see your name, GW email, and any mobile numbers that were transferred from GWeb or GW Housing systems.
Click "add" next to the mobile phone or email boxes to add additional contact information. You may add up to 2 additional email addresses and 3 mobile phone numbers. You will be asked to verify your carrier information, as well as to confirm that the GW Alert system can send messages to your mobile device. Follow the instructions provided on the screen to complete the setup.

I’m assuming I cant do this on an international number, right?

Not sure