SOURCE_URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gwu/comments/14kcb90/general_advice_for_freshmen/

[POST TITLE] General advice for freshmen

[POST BODY]
Hey guys,
I’ll (19M) be coming in as a freshman and wanted advice from the upperclassman. How do I make the most out of my first few weeks at GW socially? Simply put, how do I put myself in the best position to have a good time academically and socially. Thanks

Keep your dorm door open in the beginning when you're in the room, people like to stop by and introduce themselves. Really get to know the people on your floor, becoming friends with your neighbors can really make your dorm experience.

Thurston rooftop has so many freshman. Don’t have a pregame if u don’t drink.

Also, I’m aware that there will be welcome week events/parties, do I invite people I meet during the day to “pre-game” (I don’t drink) before going out?

people are super social the first few weeks, everyone is trying hard to make friends. don’t overthink it-if someone invites you to do something, say yes. don’t skip out on the stupid orientation activities, they’re a great way to meet new people. even if you don’t drink you should still go to parties and mingle. and don’t be afraid to host people and invite people out yourself! Also try going to org fairs and joining a few clubs that interest you in the first month. i will say that if you invite people over to “pre game” they’ll be expecting drinks lol so if you don’t wanna supply alc just invite ppl to hang out

Ask to sit with random people in the dining hall. Be social. A lot of ppl struggle socially bc they stay in their rooms dont be that person. Use this time to your advantage. Say hello to people and introduce yourself. U never know who u might meet

GW is pretty scarce socially. Most people end up rushing Greek Life because of it. Rush!

How bad is the hazing? I would love to rush if the hazing isn’t bad. If the hazing includes drinking, I don’t think I’ll be able to do it lmao

It's not like we go to Penn State or any school with a legit Greek Life system. We do not haze. We do not force anyone to do anything they don't want to. There's a huge stigma revolving around Greek Life that we are some big cult of white nationalists. This is far from the truth and only applies to one fraternity in particular. For the most part, through Rush Week (after starting month), you get the opportunity to meet every single chapter and see which one applies to you. I came to GWU not wanting to join but ended up in one due to opportunities with events (parties, darties, formals, etc..). The sad part is GL is stigmatized, and the reputations of other schools spill over into discussions within ours. There's pros and cons to joining, the cons are mostly people thinking you are a do*che for rushing. I will say the pros outweigh the cons. Greek Life is its own isolated community on campus. Many people end up hating Greek life because parties aren't inclusive and only allow people in Greek Life to come. This is all coming from an introverted gamer who liked to play World of Warcraft and other random games. If I rushed at a state school and told them that -- I would have been instantly dropped. That is the one thing about GWU, is it's an isolated experience. You won't have the same "frat" experience as someone at Penn, but you will meet people with similar interests. Of course, you always have the "bad apples" of Greek Life, but you will understand pretty quickly most people only join to have a social life. GWU is really hard to find people with similar interests.

Regarding your question about drinking, a kid in my pledge class went through the entire rush process without drinking a single drop. Obviously, we would try to coerce him into it, but he held strong. It was a shock even to us, a "top fraternity" not hazing seemed weird, but it made sense. We don't live in the 1970s where the alpha white guys make it their entire personality. If someone is going to come after you for not drinking, then they have a problem with themselves.